All right.
So the first pseudo class we'll talk about is hover and I have the docs open for it here and I'm D-n
the hover.
She is a pseudo class matches when the user interacts with an element with a pointing device.
Typically that would be a mouse but does not necessarily activate it.
So it's important you know it doesn't mean clicking on something that will not trigger it.
But hovering over something will.
Here's an example a very simple one.
What this will do is whenever a user hovers over any div that div will turn purple background they will
turn purple.
So the syntax selects all divs on the page in the Huffer state.
So this only affects them when they're being hovered over.
Otherwise the div is in whatever other background color we have set.
Next thing we'll do is give it a shot on our own.
So I'm using code pen for this.
It's just a quick example if you're not familiar with code pen it's an in browser editor for Front-End
technologies.
TMLC and Javascript it's great both as a developer and a teacher.
I can share things with you.
So my code will be here and you'll be able to see it and view it long after this video ends.
But also it's a great way to view other peoples code so you can search for things you can share code.
There are thousands and thousands of code pends people.
Bill towd ranging from very simple things to amazing complex tools and websites people have built.
So if you never use it you can sign up.
And then you can click on the new pen button on the homepage.
Here is the create button.
New pen.
I'll just go back have pre-created one.
I'm going to minimize that javascript don't need that.
And basically from here on out anytime you see me using code pen I'll be doing it in a separate code
pen itself a separate pen.
So they call them to keep things separated so every video will have its own.
So if you want to go back and view them you can see them all under my profile but they're also included
along with every lecture or corresponding lecture as a resource.
OK so I'm going to start really simple.
We'll have an H1 and this H1 will just say I am in H-1 and we'll have let's say a paragraph.
This is a paragraph.
This really doesn't matter and we'll do one more thing let's do a button click me.
Perfect.
You can see him getting that live down here.
In fact I'll make this a bit bigger Just so you can see it.
OK.
So we have three elements.
Now let's go ahead and style something let's use H-1 colon hover.
So in the hover state only Let's do background color pink.
It's going to be very ugly.
So currently it's not pink but I hover immediately turns pink.
It's as easy as that.
Now of course we'll be working towards making more beautiful things and making them beautiful.
It's not really just a matter of better colors but it's also has to do with the actual animation.
It is very jarring.
This is an immediate transition and if I had another one here let's just say I am also.
Each one and I save both of them turned pink when I hover over them.
All right so that's the basics of it.
But just to show you I can do the same thing for the button that's two button hover and this time let's
make the background let's do something other than background let's do the color itself white.
All right.
So we were to each one.
Nothing happens to the paragraph.
And our button turns white.
Very ugly yes.
But it immediately gives you feedback that you can click this or that.
There's something here and that's pretty much all there is to hover.
So and the video here that I'll say is that we are working towards making things that look a lot nicer.
This is very basic but this is the foundation right if we want to do anything upon a hover when it user
mouse is over.
This is the best way to do it using C assess the question.
As I mentioned in the last video is not how to do it but really what to do what's the animation itself.
And that's what we're going to learn.
That's what we're going to focus on is how do we make it take longer.
How do we affect the timing of it.
How do we make it more beautiful of that rather than just an immediate jarring transition.
So that's coming up but first we're going to talk about the two other pseudo classes very briefly focus
and active.